## JRecord 0.93.4 Readme

This versions contains
* Fix for running tests under maven
* A new *parse* statment in RecordEditor-Xml File descriptions. This means all the parameters associated with a Cobol copybook in a Xml file
* more comments added to the code

## Notes for New Users
The [ReadMe_NewUsers.md](ReadMe_NewUsers.md) has an expanded version of this section.
The first thing new users need to decide is

* Are you going to use the *Java* interface ???, then see **Java Interface** section
* Are you going to use the existing [Cobol2Csv](http://coboltocsv.sourceforge.net/wCbl2C02.htm) / [Cobol2Xml](http://coboltoxml.sourceforge.net/wCbl2X02.htm) interfaces. These programs will
convert Cobol-Data-Files to/from Csv/Xml files.
* Are you going to write *your own generic* interface ???. If so look at the **CobolSchemaReader** class
and see how it is used in Cobol2Xml. Also If copying files, look at **Copy** class.

## JRecord Download site

**JRecord** is available from [Sourceforge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/jrecord/):

* [JRecord on Sourceforge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/jrecord/)
* [JRecord Download](https://sourceforge.net/projects/jrecord/files/)
* [JRecord Wiki](https://sourceforge.net/p/jrecord/wiki/Home/)
* [JRecord Questions on stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/jrecord)
* [JRecord Forums on Sourceforge](https://sourceforge.net/p/jrecord/discussion/)
* [JRecord Tickets on Sourceforge](https://sourceforge.net/p/jrecord/_list/tickets)

**Current JRecord Download:

* [JRecord Download Version 0.93](https://sourceforge.net/projects/jrecord/files/jrecord/Version_0.93/)

## JRecord

### Introduction

**JRecord** provides

* IO routines for Length Based (Lines are either fixed length or a length
field at the start of the record) files. Standard Text files are also supported
* IO routines for Cobol Data files (both Text and Binary).
* IO routines for Flat Files (both Fixed Field width and CSV files).
* Cobol2Csv, Csv2Cobol and Cobol2Cobol utilities
* Same IO routines for all File Types (XML (via StAX parser), CSV and Fixed Field Width) 

For Documentation see [JRecord Documentation](Docs/JRecordIntro.htm)


### Getting started with JRecord Java interface

The easiest way to access **JRecord** is via **IOBuilders** (using the **JRecordInterface1** class):

```java
     ICobolIOBuilder ioBldr 
                 = JRecordInterface1.COBOL
                     .newIOBuilder("CobolCopybook.cbl")
                         .setSplitCopybook(CopybookLoader.SPLIT_01_LEVEL)
                         .setDialect(ICopybookDialects.FMT_FUJITSU);
     AbstractLineReader reader = ioBldr.newReader("input File Name");
     AbstractLine l;
         
     while ((l = reader.read()) != null) {
         ...
     }
     reader.close();
```

There is a description of using the IOBuilder interface in the [JRecord Manual](Docs/JRecordIntro.htm#HDRIOBLDR"). You should also investigate
the **Code Generation** options.

### Cobol Copybook

Thomas Fuller has written a good introduction to [Cobol Copybooks](https://thospfuller.com/2023/11/08/what-is-a-copybook-in-cobol/) 


### Code Generation
To help you get started with JRecord, there are 2 Code Generate options available:
 
* The [JRecord CodeGen](https://github.com/bmTas/JRecordCodeGen) sub-project will generate a skelton Java~JRecord Read/write programs from a Cobol Copybook.
* **JRecord CodeGen** is now part of the [RecordEditor](https://sourceforge.net/projects/record-editor/)
see [RecordEditor Generate option](Docs/RecordEditorGenerate.htm) for details. Also see 

    * [StackOverflow question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46313332/how-do-you-generate-javajrecord-code-fror-a-cobol-copybook)
    * [RecordEditor Generate JRecord Code Documentation](http://record-editor.sourceforge.net/RecordEditorGenerate.htm)

### Reading Example

Code to read a Cobol file (Generated by CodeGen utility):

```java

         ICobolIOBuilder iob = JRecordInterface1.COBOL
                               .newIOBuilder(copybookName)
                                  .setFont("cp037")
                                  .setFileOrganization(Constants.IO_FIXED_LENGTH)
                                  .setSplitCopybook(CopybookLoader.SPLIT_NONE)
                                      ;  

           FieldNamesDtar021.RecordDtar021 rDtar021 = FieldNamesDtar021.RECORD_DTAR021;
           AbstractLineReader reader = iob.newReader(dataFile);
           while ((line = reader.read()) != null) {
               lineNum += 1;
               System.out.println(
                             line.getFieldValue(rDtar021.keycodeNo).asString()
                     + " " + line.getFieldValue(rDtar021.storeNo).asString()
                     + " " + line.getFieldValue(rDtar021.qtySold).asString()
                     + " " + line.getFieldValue(rDtar021.salePrice).asString()
                  );
           }

           reader.close();
```

Cobol Field Name class (Generated by CodeGen utility):

```java 
    public class FieldNamesDtar021 {
    
        public static final RecordDtar021 RECORD_DTAR021 = new RecordDtar021();
    
        public static class RecordDtar021 {
           public final String keycodeNo = "KEYCODE-NO";
           public final String storeNo = "STORE-NO";
           public final String theDate = "THE-DATE";
           public final String deptNo = "DEPT-NO";
           public final String qtySold = "QTY-SOLD";
           public final String salePrice = "SALE-PRICE";
        }
    }
```   

### Writing with JRecord Example

```java 
            FieldNamesDtar022.RecordDtar022 rDtar022 = FieldNamesDtar022.RECORD_DTAR022;
	        ICobolIOBuilder iobWrite = JRecordInterface1.COBOL
	                .newIOBuilder(outCopybookName)
	                   .setFont("cp037")
	                   .setFileOrganization(Constants.IO_FIXED_LENGTH)
	                   .setSplitCopybook(CopybookLoader.SPLIT_NONE)
	                       ;  
	        AbstractLineWriter writer = iobWrite.newWriter(outputFileName);
	        AbstractLine dtar022Line  = iobWrite.newLine();

            dtar022Line.getFieldValue(rDtar022.keycodeNo).set("223");
            dtar022Line.getFieldValue(rDtar022.theDate)  .set(22);
            dtar022Line.getFieldValue(rDtar022.deptNo)   .set(22);
            dtar022Line.getFieldValue(rDtar022.qtySold)  .set(5);
            dtar022Line.getFieldValue(rDtar022.salePrice).set("123.45");

            writer.write(dtar022Line);

            ...
            
            writer.close();
```

## Hadoop

If working with Hadoop have a look at:

* [copybook formater](https://github.com/gss2002/copybook_formatter) and [ftp2hdfs](https://github.com/gss2002/ftp2hdfs) 
* [CopybookInputFormat](https://github.com/tmalaska/CopybookInputFormat)

## Software Recommendations
Previous versions of **JRecord** came with utilities (editors etc), this version does not
with old utilities (it does have Csv2Cobol and Cobol2Csv utilities).

I would suggest you:
* Download and use the [RecordEditor](http://record-editor.sourceforge.net/) to view / edit your Cobol files.
You can also use the [RecordEditor](http://record-editor.sourceforge.net/) to generate JRecord code.

You can use the **RecordEditor** to view / try out the JRecord-options before writing your code.
In the future, I hope to release a Cobol-Version of the RecordEditor that uses Cobol-Copybooks and Xml-File
descriptions. This will replace the old JRecord-Utilities. This is unlikely to be released before the end of 2015 though.

##  Change Summary

#### Changes 0.93.4
* Fix for running tests under maven
* A new *parse* statment in RecordEditor-Xml File descriptions. This means all the parameters associated with a Cobol copybook in a Xml file
* Some more comments

#### Changes 0.93.0

This versions includes

* Use of cb2xml version 1.01.5 or later is required.
* Creating 2 new interfaces **IFileStructureConstants** (File Structure/Organisation constants) and ISelectionOperators (Record Selection operator constants) have created. The values where previously in Constants Interface, the Constants Interface now extends the new interfaces.
* Copying cb2xml Conditions into JRecord-Layouts (file schema's). This is useful in CodeGen
* Cb2xml ICobolCopybookTextSource interface can be used as a Copybook source.
* CodeGen improvements

Changes that should not matter to users of JRecord

* Minor fix to Record-Layout-Selection
* Fix for trailing space in getFieldText method
* Adding validation method **isValid()** to the FieldValue class.
* Many internal changes (e.g. add isValid method to type interface, add isPositiveNumeric method to TypeManager class).
* Change Type hierachy, **BaseType** is the new Top of the **Type** Class Hierarchy (instead of TypeChar). Numeric Types are either TypeNum or Extend TypeNum. TypeNum extend BaseType (instead of TypeChar).
* Adding RECORD_SELECTION_BUILDER to JRecordInterface1
* CodeGen related changes, these include:
    * Create Java Interface to CodeGen. This new Java interface has file-analysis option that will analyse a sample file and try and determine the file strucure and Record Mapping.
    * Option to rename duplicate fields
     
### Changes 0.90

* Change to use cb2xml 1.00. Cb2xml now converts Cobol directly into Java classes which are used by JRecord (instead of going via Xml).
* JRecord now stores both the traditional *Flat* field list + *Cobol Item Tree*. This provides greater access to the original Cobol data.
* Improved performance when accessing Comp, Comp-3 and Mainframe Zoned Decimal. For smaller numerics, conversion is done using 
long variables instead of Objects. This improves performance by 70 / 80 %
* New Cobol Copybook Split option.
* Updates to CodeGen - JRecord Code Generator.
* Fix to support large copybooks

### Changes 0.81.5

* Minor improvements in handling duplicate field names
* Csv changes to Bring JRecord into line with the RecordEditor, in particular

    * Csv Quotes can now be expressed in hex format x'FF' etc.
    * JRecord has both *Chartacter* based Csv Parser and a *Byte* based  Csv parser.
      The *Byte* based  Csv was very basic but it has been upgraded to be the same as the  *Chartacter* based Csv Parser.

* Extra Functionality For use by *CodeGen* generated code. 
* Two new *Code Templates* added to the CodeGen utility.


### Changes 0.81.4

Changes for complex Occurs Depending

* Reduction in Memory usage in CobolToXml, CobolToJson when using Occurs depending.
* Fixes for Complex Occurs-Depend for CobolToXml, CobolToJson
* Added Pretty-print and asIoBuilder options to CobolToJson builder
* Add pom files to CobolToJson, Fix pom files for CobolToXml
* Csv-field-delimiters can be specified in \u0001 format (unicode hex format
* Some Csv fix's for specifying field-delimiters in the x'01' type format.

